I'm making beef Burgundy that's a little
dressed up not complicated just with a
few special touches that really have a
great payoff in the flavor so I brown
some bacon very quickly over high heat
and I also need some drippings to brown
the beef cubes in and rather than adding
an oil from a bottle I just decided
let's use bacon drippings that is so
much more flavorful I'm going to toss
the beef cubes with some flour because I
want to get a nice firm finish on the
browned beef and once you can see that
it is all well covered then add about
half of the cubes at a time yes you
might be tempted to speed it up and do
it all at once but if you crowd the
skillet the beef will steam in its own
juices because it doesn't have enough
individual contact with the heat of the
pan and it doesn't have enough space
around it to actually allow the browning
to occur so we've got a nice Brown
finish on these guys and they will be
the first batch of finished beef cubes
in they go and now time for the second
batch which has been nicely patiently
waiting here pour them into the pan so
we've got the kind of brown finish on
these cubes the second batch that I've
been looking for and it's time to put
them into the slow cooker as well jump
in there and you know what it would
break my heart to leave this beautiful
brown drippings behind we're going to
add some red burgundy wine and add it to
this pan and you can see how it will
deglaze those gorgeous drippings that
have collected this will add
immeasurably to the flavor of the finish
but before I add the wine I'm going to
add the seasonings so seasoning salt
plain salt some beef bouillon because I
do want to have a rich beef flavor and a
good swirl of pepper garlic of course
doesn't hurt a thing some dried oregano
some dried thyme and then the rest of
the red wine that I didn't add to the
pan and finally these great drippings
just going to go in here and really make
this dish sing and then the bacon that
we crisped earlier so now we've added
all of the flavorings including the
crispy bacon
and I'm going to set it in the slow
cooker where it will cook on low for
four hours so let's see how things are
going here ah ah
you could get drunk on that flavor it is
so amazing we have one thing to do yet
and that is adding ketchup and you may
ask why now well I'm doing it because I
didn't want the tomatoey flavor to be
lost in this long simmering stew so I'm
going to keep the intensity of the
tomato flavor by adding it near the end
and the fresh mushrooms go in as well I
love the fresh taste of mushrooms and I
wanted to be able to maintain that and
they simply don't need to cook as long
as the beef does so here we go stir them
in the lid goes back on and that only
needs to heat for another ten to fifteen
minutes just enough time for me to make
noodles I am going to have noodles with
beef Burgundy on top for dinner tonight
so let's see how things have progressed
here
it is exactly the consistency I wanted
it's nice and thick this is a birthday
where the meal and I say that because
our son-in-law routinely asks for beef
Burgundy for his birthday dinner
whenever I am cooking for him and ask
him what he would like how can you beat
this but really I ought to test it to
make sure mmm
worth every extra effort related to the
bacon the brown bits and the late
edition of the ketchup and the mushrooms
which is great food